#labels Featured
= Installation =

Installing and Configuring the Jaspersoft !BigQuery Connector

==*1.Sign Up for !BigQuery*==
==*2.Jaspersoft !BigQuery connector*==
==*3.Deploy Jaspersoft !BigQuery connector to iReport*==
==*4.Create a !BigQuery connection/data source in iReport*==
==*5.Create a report*==
==*6.Deploy the query executor report*==
==*7.Deploy the report to !JasperReports Server*==
==*8.Run the report*==

= Details =
Sign up for !BigQuery if your !BigQuery service is not activated else you may skip the instructions to signup for Big!Query.

==*1. Sign Up for !BigQuery*==
  * Log in to Google APIs Console.
  * Create a new Google API project or choose an existing project.
  * Navigate to services tab 
  * Turn on the !BigQuery Service.
  * Review the Terms and Services, if prompted.

===*  Generate API Access ID*===
  * Navigate to API Access Tab
  * For a new project, generate !OAuth Client Id for any of your application types:Web Application,Service Account or Installed Application.Previously generated !OAuth Client Id can also be used.
  * Take a note of the account email id,project id.
  * Download the private key.

For detailed steps on signing up for Big!Query refer to https://developers.google.com/bigquery/docs/getting-started

==*2. Jaspersoft !BigQuery connector*==
Download the following files present under download tab in current page:
  * jrs-bigquery-0.0.1
  * Jaspersoft-iReport-!BigQueryPlugin-0.0.1
  * js-bigquery-datasource-0.0.1

==*3. Deploy Jaspersoft !BigQuery connector to iReport*==
  * Select Tool->Plugin
  * Choose 'Downloaded' tab
  * Click on Add Plugins and navigate to 'Jaspersoft-iReport-!BigQueryPlugin-0.0.1.nbm' file download location and select the file.
  * Click on install in Plugins wizard to install the plugin.
  * Restart the iReport Designer.

==*4. Create a !BigQuery connection/data source in iReport*==
  * Choose the Report Datasources button on the toolbar.
  * Click on 'New'and select '!BigQuery Connection'
  * Specify the name for the data source.
  * Choose the private key from the other details obtained from the steps mentioned earlier.
  * Click on 'Test' to test the connection for success.
  
==*5. Create a report*==
  * Select File->New
  * Choose any template and click "Launch Report Wizard".
  * Set the report name and location.
  * Create a query to retrieve data. Ensure if not using the sample datasets, create a dataset and table in Google Storage.
==*6. Deploy the query executor report*==
  * Copy the downloaded jar files into $JASPERSERVER_HOME/apache-tomcat/webapps/jasperserver-pro/WEB-INF/lib: js-bigquery-datasource-0.0.1.jar
  Also the following files to the specified locations:

  applicationContext-!BigQueryDataSource.xml to $JASPERSERVER_HOME/apache-tomcat/webapps/jasperserver-pro/WEB-IN
  !BigQueryDataSource.properties to $JASPERSERVER_HOME/apache-tomcat/webapps/jasperserver-pro/WEB-INF/bundles
  * Be sure to keep the folder structure when copying the files.
  * Start or restart !JasperReports Server to apply the changes.
==*7. Deploy the report to !JasperReports Server*==
   ===*Data Source*===
  * Define the data source in !JasperReports Server
  * Right-click a folder, add a Data Source
  * Set the Data Source properties   
===*Report*===
Use either the !JasperReports Server web interface or the iReport   Repository Navigator to deploy the report.

Deploying the report to !JasperReports Server from iReport:
  * In the !JasperReports Server Repository Window, create a new server
  * Set the configuration properties for the server. Default organization name is organization_1
  * Include the report to be deployed and click on publish.
Deploying the report to !JasperReports Server using the web interface
  * Login as a admin
  * Right click on the Data Sources under Repository->Folders and select Add Resource->Data Source
  * Set the properties for the Data Source
==*8. Run the report*==
Search for the report or browse to the report in the !JasperReports Server repository.