#summary Getting started with creating Jaspersoft reports with a Google BigQuery Data Source. New users should start with this page.
#labels Featured

= Installing and configuring the Jaspersoft !BigQuery Connector =

=Summary=

  # Activate the Google !BigQuery Service
  # Download Jaspersoft !BigQuery connector
  # Install Jaspersoft !BigQuery Plugin for iReport
  # Create a report in iReport
  # Deploy Jaspersoft !BigQuery connector to !JasperReports Server
  # Publish a Report

= Details =

==1. Activate the Google !BigQuery Service==
See [https://code.google.com/p/jaspersoft-bigquery-datasource/wiki/ActivatingBigQueryService Activate Google BigQuery] for details.

Existing !BigQuery users may skip the section 'Sign up for !BigQuery Service' in the above link. But they are advised to refer to the section 'Generate API Access ID' for instructions on the properties needed for establishing a Jaspersoft-!BigQuery Datasource connection.

#sidebar DownloadConnector

==*2. Download Jaspersoft !BigQuery connector*==
Download the following files from the project [https://code.google.com/p/jaspersoft-bigquery-datasource/].

The following files are included:
  * jrs-bigquery-0.0.2
  * Jaspersoft-iReport-!BigQueryPlugin-0.0.2
  * js-bigquery-datasource-0.0.2

Download Jaspersoft BI Suite from [http://www.jaspersoft.com/jaspersoft-business-intelligence-software-trial here]

==*3. Installing Jaspersoft !BigQuery Plugin for iReport*==
 See [https://code.google.com/p/jaspersoft-bigquery-datasource/wiki/ConfiguringiReport Configuring iReport] for details.

==*4. Creating a report in iReport*==
 See [https://code.google.com/p/jaspersoft-bigquery-datasource/wiki/ReportCreation Creating a Report] for details.

==*5. Deploying Jaspersoft !BigQuery connector to !JasperReports Server*==
 See [https://code.google.com/p/jaspersoft-bigquery-datasource/wiki/ConfiguringJasperReportsServer Configuring JasperReports Server] for details.  

==*6. Publishing a Report*==
 See [https://code.google.com/p/jaspersoft-bigquery-datasource/wiki/PublishReport Publishing a Report] for details.  